---
title: PagerDuty v1 Event Handler
description: The PagerDuty v1 event handler allows you to send Kapacitor alerts to PagerDuty. This doc includes configuration options and usage examples.
---

[PagerDuty](https://www.pagerduty.com/) is an incident management platform that helps teams detect and fix infrastructure problems quickly.
Kapacitor can be configured to send alert messages to PagerDuty.

<dt>
<em>This doc is specific to PagerDuty's v1 API which has been deprecated. PagerDuty recommends migrating to their v2 API. View the <a href="https://v2.developer.pagerduty.com/docs/migrating-to-api-v2" target="\_blank">PagerDuty API migration guide</a> for more information about upgrading. If using the v2 API, view the <a href="../v2">PagerDuty v2 event handler</a> documentation.</em>
</dt>

## Configuration
Configuration as well as default [option](#options) values for the PagerDuty v1 event handler are set in your `kapacitor.conf`.
Below is an example config:

```toml
[pagerduty]
  enabled = true
  service-key = ""
  url = "https://events.pagerduty.com/generic/2010-04-15/create_event.json"
  global = false
```

#### `enabled`
Set to `true` to enable the PagerDuty v1 event handler.

#### `service-key`
Your [PagerDuty Service Key](https://support.pagerduty.com/docs/services-and-integrations).

#### `url`
The PagerDuty API v1 URL. _**This should not need to be changed.**_

#### `global`
If `true`, all alerts will be sent to PagerDuty without explicitly specifying PagerDuty in TICKscripts.


## Options
The following PagerDuty v1 event handler options can be set in a [handler file](/kapacitor/v1.5/event_handlers/#handler-file) or when using `.pagerduty()` in a TICKscript.

| Name        | Type   | Description      |
| ----        | ----   | -----------      |
| service-key | string | The service key. |

### Example Handler File
```yaml
id: handler-id
topic: topic-name
kind: pagerduty
options:
  service-key: 'myservicekey'
```

### Example TICKscript
```js
|alert()
  // ...
  .pagerduty()
    .serviceKey('myservicekey')
```

##  Using the PagerDuty v1 Event Handler
With the PagerDuty v1 event handler enabled in your `kapacitor.conf`, use the `.pagerduty()` attribute in your TICKscripts to send alerts to a PagerDuty or define a PagerDuty v1 handler that subscribes to a topic and sends published alerts to PagerDuty.

The examples below use the same PagerDuty v1 configuration defined in the `kapacitor.conf`:

_**PagerDuty v1 settings in kapacitor.conf**_  
```toml
[pagerduty]
  enabled = true
  service-key = "myservicekey"
  url = "https://events.pagerduty.com/generic/2010-04-15/create_event.json"
  global = false
```

### Send alerts to PagerDuty from a TICKscript

The following TICKscript uses the `.pagerduty()` event handler to send the message, "Hey, check your CPU", whenever idle CPU usage drops below 10%.

_**pagerduty-cpu-alert.tick**_  
```js
stream
  |from()
    .measurement('cpu')
  |alert()
    .crit(lambda: "usage_idle" < 10)
    .message('Hey, check your CPU')
    .pagerduty()
```

### Send alerts to PagerDuty from a defined handler

The following setup sends an alert to the `cpu` topic with the message, "Hey, check your CPU". A PagerDuty v1 handler is added that subscribes to the `cpu` topic and publishes all alert messages to PagerDuty.

Create a TICKscript that publishes alert messages to a topic.
The TICKscript below sends an alert message to the `cpu` topic any time CPU idle-usage drops below 10% _(or CPU usage is above 90%)_.

_**cpu\_alert.tick**_
```js
stream
  |from()
    .measurement('cpu')
  |alert()
    .crit(lambda: "usage_idle" < 10)
    .message('Hey, check your CPU')
    .topic('cpu')
```

Add and enable the TICKscript:

```bash
kapacitor define cpu_alert -tick cpu_alert.tick
kapacitor enable cpu_alert
```

Create a handler file that subscribes to the `cpu` topic and uses the PagerDuty v1 event handler to send alerts to PagerDuty.

_**pagerduty\_cpu\_handler.yaml**_
```yaml
topic: cpu
id: pagerduty-cpu-alert
kind: pagerduty
options:
  service-key: 'myservicekey'
```

Add the handler:

```bash
kapacitor define-topic-handler pagerduty_cpu_handler.yaml
```
