---
title: Differences Between InfluxDB 0.13 and 0.12
menu:
  influxdb_1:
    weight: 40
    parent: administration
---

This page aims to ease the transition from InfluxDB 0.12 to InfluxDB 0.13.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive list of the differences between the versions.
See [InfluxDB's Changelog](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for detailed release notes.

#### Sections:

* [collectd and OpenTSDB support multiple listeners](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#collectd-and-opentsdb-support-multiple-listeners)
* [Deprecated `/query` endpoint request behavior](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#deprecated-query-endpoint-request-behavior)
* [`DELETE` functionality](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#delete-functionality)
* [Configure `GROUP BY time()` interval boundaries](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#configure-group-by-time-interval-boundaries)
* [Configuration file environment variable](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#configuration-file-environment-variable)
* [New query management features](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#new-query-management-features)
* [New functions](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/012_vs_013/#new-functions)

### collectd and OpenTSDB support multiple listeners

InfluxDB 0.13 supports multiple listeners for the collectd and OpenTSDB inputs.
Because of changes to the configuration file (the headers
`[collectd]` and `[opentsdb]` are now `[[collectd]]` and `[[opentsdb]]`),
we recommend that users
[export](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/config/#using-configuration-files)
a default configuration file and manually migrate customizations into it before
launching version 0.13.

See Database Configuration for the
[collectd](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/config/#collectd) and
[OpenTSDB](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/config/#opentsdb) settings.

### Deprecated /query endpoint request behavior

Starting with InfluxDB 0.13, all queries sent to the `/query` endpoint that are
not `SELECT` or `SHOW` queries should be `POST` requests to the `/query`
endpoint.
non-`SELECT` and non-`SHOW` queries will continue to work with `GET` requests
to the `/query` endpoint but this behavior is deprecated in version 0.13 and
will no longer work in version 1.0.

### DELETE functionality

InfluxDB 0.13 introduces the `DELETE` query.
The query deletes all points from series in a database.
Unlike
[`DROP SERIES`](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/database_management/#drop-series-from-the-index-with-drop-series)
, it does not drop series from the index and it supports time intervals in the
`WHERE` clause.

The query takes the following form where you must specify either the `FROM`
clause or the `WHERE` clause:

```
DELETE FROM <measurement_name> WHERE [<tag_key>='<tag_value>'] | [<time interval>]
```

See
[Database Management](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/database_management/#delete-series-with-delete)
for more on the `DELETE` syntax and sample queries.

### Configure GROUP BY time() interval boundaries

With InfluxDB 0.13, users can alter `GROUP BY time()`'s default rounded
calendar time boundaries by including an offset interval.
The new syntax is:

```
SELECT [...] GROUP BY time(<time_interval>[,<offset_interval>])
```

For an in-depth discussion of the `offset_interval`, see the discussion in
[Data Exploration](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/data_exploration/#configured-group-by-time-boundaries).

### Configuration file environment variable

With InfluxDB 0.13, users can set the environment variable
`INFLUXDB_CONFIG_PATH` to the path of their configuration file.

For more information see [Using Configuration Files](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/config/#using-configuration-files).

### New query management features

Version 0.13 offers a new configuration setting for query management.
The setting `log-queries-after` tells InfluxDB to log a query if the query runs
longer than a given time period.

See the
[Query Management](/influxdb/v1.0/troubleshooting/query_management/#log-queries-after)
page for more information.

### New functions

InfluxDB 0.13 provides one new InfluxQL function. `ELAPSED()` returns the
difference between subsequent timestamps in a single field.
See [Functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/#elapsed) for the
syntax and sample queries.

InfluxDB 0.13 also updates the behavior of
[selector functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/#selectors) to
return the relevant timestamp:

Example:

```
> SELECT FIRST(water_level) FROM h2o_feet
```

0.12 return format:&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
0.13 return format:

```
name: h2o_feet                              name: h2o_feet
--------------                              --------------
time			               first                 time			               first
1970-01-01T00:00:00Z	 8.12                  2015-08-18T00:00:00Z	 8.12
```
