---
title: Differences Between InfluxDB 1.0 and 0.13
menu:
  influxdb_1_0:
    weight: 40
    parent: administration
---

This page aims to ease the transition from InfluxDB 0.13 to InfluxDB 1.0.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive list of the differences between the versions.
See [InfluxDB's Changelog](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for detailed release notes.

### Sections:

* [Breaking Changes](#breaking-changes)
* [`SHOW FIELD KEYS` returns fields' data types](#show-field-keys-returns-fields-data-types)
* [Modified name for the auto-generated retention policy](#modified-name-for-the-auto-generated-retention-policy)
* [New InfluxQL syntax introduces casting and differentiating between identical field and tag keys](#new-influxql-syntax-introduces-casting-and-differentiating-between-identical-field-and-tag-keys)
* [InfluxQL function updates](#influxql-function-updates)
* [Logging change](#logging-change)
* [Add support for JWT token authentication](#jwt-token-authentication)
* [Add tsm file export to influx_inspect tool](#influx-inspect-export)

### Breaking Changes

* `max-series-per-database` was added with a default of 1M but can be disabled by setting it to `0`. Existing databases with series that exceed this limit will continue to load but writes that would create new series will fail.
* Config option `[cluster]` has been replaced with `[coordinator]`
* Support for config options `[collectd]` and `[opentsdb]` has been removed; use `[[collectd]]` and `[[opentsdb]]` instead.
* Config option `data-logging-enabled` within the `[data]` section, has been renamed to `trace-logging-enabled`, and defaults to `false`.
* The keywords `IF`, `EXISTS`, and `NOT` where removed for this release.  This means you no longer need to specify `IF NOT EXISTS` for `DROP DATABASE` or `IF EXISTS` for `CREATE DATABASE`.  If these are specified, a query parse error is returned.
* The Shard `writePointsFail` stat has been renamed to `writePointsErr` for consistency with other stats.

### `SHOW FIELD KEYS` returns fields' data types

Starting with InfluxDB version 1.0, the `SHOW FIELD KEYS` query also returns the
field's data type.

Example query:
```
> SHOW FIELD KEYS FROM all_the_types
```

Version 0.13 output:
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;
Version 1.0 output:

```
name: all_the_types                  name: all_the_types
-------------------                  -------------------
fieldKey                             fieldKey  fieldType
blue                                 blue      string
green                                green     boolean
orange                               orange    integer
yellow                               yellow    float
```

See
[Schema Exploration](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/schema_exploration/#explore-field-keys-with-show-field-keys)
for further documentation.

### Modified name for the auto-generated retention policy

Starting with version 1.0, InfluxDB modifies the name of the infinite,
auto-generated retention policy from `default` to `autogen`.
That name is also configurable with the new [configuration setting](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/config/#default-retention-policy-name-autogen)
`default-retention-policy-name`.

### New InfluxQL syntax introduces casting and differentiating between identical field and tag keys

In versions prior to 1.0, users
[were unable](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb/issues/4630) to query data
that had matching tag keys and field keys.
The new `<identifier>::<field,tag>` syntax allows users to differentiate between
tag keys and field keys with the same name.
See [Data Exploration](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/data_exploration/#the-basic-select-statement)
for an example query.

The `::` syntax also offers new casting functionality; users can cast field
values from integers to floats or from floats to integers.
Check out [Data Exploration](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/data_exploration/#data-types-and-cast-operations-in-queries) for more information.

### InfluxQL function Updates

#### Using a wildcard with aggregation functions

InfluxDB 1.0 supports using a wildcard (`*`) with
[aggregation functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/) to specify all
fields in the targeted measurement.

Example:
```
> SELECT COUNT(*) FROM "web"
name: web
---------
time   count_click   count_ratings   count_user
0      37            9               17
```

See [Functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/) for more examples.

#### New functions

InfluxDB 1.0 offers a new InfluxQL predictor function.
`HOLT_WINTERS()` returns a user-specified number of predicted values for a
single field using the [Holt-Winters](https://www.otexts.org/fpp/7/5) seasonal
method.

See [Functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/#holt-winters) for an
explanation of the `HOLT_WINTERS()` syntax and an example query.

Mode has also been added. See [Functions](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/functions/#mode) for an
explanation of the `MODE()` syntax and an example query.

### InfluxDB logging change

Starting with version 1.0, the systemd configuration files for InfluxDB will use the system configured default for logging and will no longer write files to `/var/log/influxdb` by default.
On most systems, the logs will be directed to the systemd journal and can be accessed by `journalctl -u influxdb.service`.
Consult the systemd journald documentation for configuring journald.

See [Logs](/influxdb/v1.0/administration/logs/) for more information.

### JWT Token Authentication

JWT Token Authentication support has been added to the query api.
See [Set Up Authentication](/influxdb/v1.0/query_language/authentication_and_authorization/#set-up-authentication)

### Influx Inspect Export

The influx inspect tool now supports the ability to export data directly from a shard.
See [Influx Inspect](/influxdb/v1.0/tools/influx_inspect/) for more information.
