---
title: Differences Between InfluxDB 0.9 and InfluxDB 0.10
menu:
  influxdb_010:
    weight: 30
    parent: concepts
---

This page aims to ease the transition to InfluxDB 0.10 for those more familiar with 0.9.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive list of the differences between the versions.

There are not many breaking changes between InfluxDB version 0.9 and InfluxDB version 0.10.
* Control over the execution of Continuous Queries is now part of the query definition, not the config file 
* `tsm` is the only storage engine available in InfluxDB 0.10, although the system can still read `b1` and `bz1` shards 
* Clustering implementation has incompatible improvements over the alpha functionality in InfluxDB 0.9 

## Continuous Query Configuration

In InfluxDB 0.9 `CREATE CONTINUOUS QUERY` statements only define the query to be performed. Settings in the `[continuous_queries]` section of the configuration file control the size and frequency of the execution of continuous queries (CQs). 

In InfluxDB 0.10

> **Note:** 

## Clustering 

InfluxDB 0.9 follows a hybrid model for maintaining availability of the data while guaranteeing consistency of the metadata.
See CEO and co-founder Paul Dix's [clustering blog post](https://influxdata.com/blog/influxdb-clustering-design-neither-strictly-cp-or-ap/) for more details.

## Data Storage Engine

In InfluxDB 0.8 users could choose from a selection of underlying storage engines, with RocksDB, LevelDB, HyperLevelDB, and LMDB as available options.
In InfluxDB 0.9 the underlying storage engine is always [BoltDB](https://github.com/boltdb/bolt), a copy-on-write B+tree.


Selecting a storage engine written in Go simplifies the build process, making the code more portable to multiple architectures and operating systems.
In addition, BoltDB greatly simplifies the overhead of internal file handles, a significant source of issues in the InfluxDB 0.8 version.

