---
title: Differences Between InfluxDB 0.12 and 0.11
menu:
  influxdb_012:
    weight: 30
    parent: concepts
---

This page aims to ease the transition from InfluxDB 0.11 to InfluxDB 0.12.
It is not intended to be a comprehensive list of the differences between the versions.
See [InfluxDB's Changelog](https://github.com/influxdata/influxdb/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md) for detailed release notes.

Sections:

* [New query management features](/influxdb/v0.12/concepts/011_vs_012/#new-query-management-features)
* [New functions](/influxdb/v0.12/concepts/011_vs_012/#new-functions)
* [Configurable shard group duration](/influxdb/v0.12/concepts/011_vs_012/#configurable-shard-group-duration)
* [Clustering updates](/influxdb/v0.12/concepts/011_vs_012/#clustering-updates)

### New query management features

InfluxDB 0.12 offers new features for query management.
Users are able to identify currently-running queries and have the ability to kill queries that are overloading their system.
Additionally, users can prevent and halt the execution of inefficient queries with several new configuration settings.

See the new [Query Management](/influxdb/v0.12/troubleshooting/query_management/) page for more information.

### New functions

InfluxDB 0.12 provides two new InfluxQL functions:

* [`DIFFERENCE()`](/influxdb/v0.12/query_language/functions/#difference) returns
the difference between consecutive chronological field values.
* [`MOVING_AVERAGE()`](/influxdb/v0.12/query_language/functions/#moving-average)
returns the moving average across a window of consecutive chronological field
values.

### Configurable shard group duration

In InfluxDB 0.11, shard group durations depend on the [`DURATION`](/influxdb/v0.12/concepts/glossary/#duration) of a retention
policy.
In InfluxDB 0.12, users are able to specify shard group durations using
InfluxQL.
This can be useful for relieving memory pressure; users can split data into
smaller shard groups for retention policies with long `DURATION`s.

See the documentation on
[`CREATE RETENTION POLICY`](/influxdb/v0.12/query_language/database_management/#create-retention-policies-with-create-retention-policy), [`ALTER RETENTION POLICY`](/influxdb/v0.12/query_language/database_management/#modify-retention-policies-with-alter-retention-policy),
and [`CREATE DATABASE`](/influxdb/v0.12/query_language/database_management/#create-a-database-with-create-database) for more information.

### Clustering updates

[InfluxDB 0.11](/influxdb/v0.11/clustering/) was the last open source version that included clustering.

For more information, please see Paul Dix’s blog post on [InfluxDB Clustering, High-Availability, and Monetization](https://influxdata.com/blog/update-on-influxdb-clustering-high-availability-and-monetization/).
