---
title: BatchNode
note: Auto generated by tickdoc
---

A [BatchNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/batch_node.html) defines a source and a schedule for 
processing batch data. The data is queried from 
an InfluxDB database and then passed into the data pipeline. 

Example: 


```javascript
 batch
     .query('''
         SELECT mean("value")
         FROM "telegraf"."default".cpu_usage_idle
         WHERE "host" = 'serverA'
     ''')
     .period(1m)
     .every(20s)
     .groupBy(time(10s), 'cpu')
     ...
```

In the above example InfluxDB is queried every 20 seconds; the window of time returned 
spans 1 minute and is grouped into 10 second buckets. 


Properties
----------

Property methods modify state on the calling node. They do not add another node to the pipeline, and always return a reference to the calling node.

### Cron

Define a schedule using a cron syntax. 

The specific cron implementation is documented here: 
https://github.com/gorhill/cronexpr#implementation 

The Cron property is mutually exclusive with the Every property. 


```javascript
node.cron(value string)
```


### Every

How often to query InfluxDB. 

The Every property is mutually exclusive with the Cron property. 


```javascript
node.every(value time.Duration)
```


### Fill

Fill the data. 
Options are: 

- Any numerical value 
- null - exhibits the same behavior as the default 
- previous - reports the value of the previous window 
- none - suppresses timestamps and values where the value is null 


```javascript
node.fill(value interface{})
```


### GroupBy

Group the data by a set of dimensions. 
Can specify one time dimension. 

This property adds a `GROUP BY` clause to the query 
so all the normal behaviors when quering InfluxDB with a `GROUP BY` apply. 
More details: https://influxdb.com/docs/v0.9/query_language/data_exploration.html#the-group-by-clause 

Example: 


```javascript
    batch
        .groupBy(time(10s), 'tag1', 'tag2'))
```



```javascript
node.groupBy(d ...interface{})
```


### Offset

How far back in time to query from the current time 

For example an Offest of 2 hours and an Every of 5m, 
Kapacitor will query InfluxDB every 5 minutes for the window of data 2 hours ago. 

This applies to Cron schedules as well. If the cron specifies to run every Sunday at 
1 AM and the Offset is 1 hour. Then at 1 AM on Sunday the data from 12 AM will be queried. 


```javascript
node.offset(value time.Duration)
```


### Period

The period or length of time that will be queried from InfluxDB 


```javascript
node.period(value time.Duration)
```


Chaining Methods
----------------

Chaining methods create a new node in the pipeline as a child of the calling node. They do not modify the calling node.

### Alert

Create an alert node, which can trigger alerts. 


```javascript
node.alert()
```

Returns: [AlertNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/alert_node.html)


### Derivative

Create a new node that computes the derivative of adjacent points. 


```javascript
node.derivative(field string)
```

Returns: [DerivativeNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/derivative_node.html)


### Eval

Create an eval node that will evaluate the given transformation function to each data point. 
A list of expressions may be provided and will be evaluated in the order they are given 
and results of previous expressions are made available to later expressions. 


```javascript
node.eval(expressions ...tick.Node)
```

Returns: [EvalNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/eval_node.html)


### HttpOut

Create an http output node that caches the most recent data it has received. 
The cached data is available at the given endpoint. 
The endpoint is the relative path from the API endpoint of the running task. 
For example if the task endpoint is at &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;&#34; and endpoint is 
&#34;top10&#34;, then the data can be requested from &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;/top10&#34;. 


```javascript
node.httpOut(endpoint string)
```

Returns: [HTTPOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/http_out_node.html)


### InfluxDBOut

Create an influxdb output node that will store the incoming data into InfluxDB. 


```javascript
node.influxDBOut()
```

Returns: [InfluxDBOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/influx_d_b_out_node.html)


### Join

Join this node with other nodes. The data is joined on timestamp. 


```javascript
node.join(others ...Node)
```

Returns: [JoinNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/join_node.html)


### MapReduce

Perform a map-reduce operation on the data. 
The built-in functions under `influxql` provide the 
selection,aggregation, and transformation functions 
from the InfluxQL language. 

MapReduce may be applied to either a batch or a stream edge. 
In the case of a batch each batch is passed to the mapper idependently. 
In the case of a stream all incoming data points that have 
the exact same time are combined into a batch and sent to the mapper. 


```javascript
node.mapReduce(mr MapReduceInfo)
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Sample

Create a new node that samples the incoming points or batches. 

One point will be emitted every count or duration specified. 


```javascript
node.sample(rate interface{})
```

Returns: [SampleNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/sample_node.html)


### Union

Perform the union of this node and all other given nodes. 


```javascript
node.union(node ...Node)
```

Returns: [UnionNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/union_node.html)


### Where

Create a new node that filters the data stream by a given expression. 


```javascript
node.where(expression tick.Node)
```

Returns: [WhereNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/where_node.html)


### Window

Create a new node that windows the stream by time. 

NOTE: Window can only be applied to stream edges. 


```javascript
node.window()
```

Returns: [WindowNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/window_node.html)

