---
title: MapNode
note: Auto generated by tickdoc
---

Performs a map operation on the data stream.
In the map-reduce framework it is assumed that
several different partitions of the data can be
&#39;mapped&#39; in parallel while only one &#39;reduce&#39; operation
will process all of the data stream.

Example:


```javascript
    stream
        .window()
            .period(10s)
            .every(10s)
        // Sum the values for each 10s window of data.
        .mapReduce(influxql.sum("value"))
        ...
```



Chaining Methods
----------------

Chaining methods create a new node in the pipeline as a child of the calling node. They do not modify the calling node.

### Alert

Create an alert node, which can trigger alerts.


```javascript
node.alert()
```

Returns: [AlertNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/alert_node.html)


### Apply

Create an apply node that will apply the given transformation function to each data point.
See the built-in function `expr` in order to write in-line custom transformation functions.


```javascript
node.apply(transform interface{})
```

Returns: [ApplyNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/apply_node.html)


### GroupBy

Group the data by a set of tags.


```javascript
node.groupBy(tag ...string)
```

Returns: [GroupByNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/group_by_node.html)


### HttpOut

Create an http output node that caches the most recent data it has received.
The cached data is available at the given endpoint.
The endpoint is the relative path from the API endpoint of the running task.
For example if the task endpoint is at &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;&#34; and endpoint is
&#34;top10&#34;, then the data can be requested from &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;/top10&#34;.


```javascript
node.httpOut(endpoint string)
```

Returns: [HTTPOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/http_out_node.html)


### InfluxDBOut

Create an influxdb output node that will store the incoming data into InfluxDB.


```javascript
node.influxDBOut()
```

Returns: [InfluxDBOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/influx_d_b_out_node.html)


### Join

Join this node with another node. The data is joined on time.


```javascript
node.join(other Node)
```

Returns: [JoinNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/join_node.html)


### Map

Perform just the map step of a map-reduce operation.
A map step must always be followed by a reduce step.
See Apply for performing simple transformations.
See MapReduce for performing map-reduce in one command.

NOTE: Map can only be applied to batch edges.


```javascript
node.map(f interface{})
```

Returns: [MapNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/map_node.html)


### MapReduce

Perform a map-reduce operation on the data.
The built-in functions under `influxql` provide the
selection,aggregation, and transformation functions
from the InfluxQL language.

NOTE: MapReduce can only be applied to batch edges.


```javascript
node.mapReduce(mr MapReduceInfo)
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Reduce

Perform just the reduce step of a map-reduce operation.

NOTE: Reduce can only be applied to map edges.


```javascript
node.reduce(f interface{})
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Union

Perform the union of this node and all other given nodes.


```javascript
node.union(node ...Node)
```

Returns: [UnionNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/union_node.html)


### Where

Create a new node that filters the data stream by a given expression.


```javascript
node.where(expression string)
```

Returns: [WhereNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/where_node.html)


### Window

Create a new node that windows the stream by time.

NOTE: Window can only be applied to stream edges.


```javascript
node.window()
```

Returns: [WindowNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/window_node.html)

