---
title: StreamNode
note: Auto generated by tickdoc
---

A [StreamNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html) represents the source of data being 
streamed to Kapacitor via any of its inputs. 
The stream node allows you to select which portion of the stream 
you want to process. 
The `stream` variable in stream tasks is an instance of 
a [StreamNode.](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html) 

Example: 


```javascript
    stream
        .from()
           .database('mydb')
           .retentionPolicy('myrp')
           .measurement('mymeasurement')
           .where(lambda: "host" =~ /logger\d+/)
        .window()
        ...
```

The above example selects only data points from the database `mydb` 
and retention policy `myrp` and measurement `mymeasurement` where 
the tag `host` matches the regex `logger\d+` 


Properties
----------

Property methods modify state on the calling node. They do not add another node to the pipeline, and always return a reference to the calling node.

### Database

The database name. 
If empty any database will be used. 


```javascript
node.database(value string)
```


### Measurement

The measurement name 
If empty any measurement will be used. 


```javascript
node.measurement(value string)
```


### RetentionPolicy

The retention policy name 
If empty any retention policy will be used. 


```javascript
node.retentionPolicy(value string)
```


### Truncate

Optional duration for truncating timestamps. 
Helpful to ensure data points land on specfic boundaries 
Example: 


```javascript
    stream
       .from().measurement('mydata')
           .truncate(1s)
```

All incoming data will be truncated to 1 second resolution. 


```javascript
node.truncate(value time.Duration)
```


### Where

Filter the current stream using the given expression. 
This expression is a Kapacitor expression. Kapacitor 
expressions are a superset of InfluxQL WHERE expressions. 
See the `Expression` docs for more information. 

If empty then all data points are considered to match. 


```javascript
node.where(expression tick.Node)
```


Chaining Methods
----------------

Chaining methods create a new node in the pipeline as a child of the calling node. They do not modify the calling node.

### Alert

Create an alert node, which can trigger alerts. 


```javascript
node.alert()
```

Returns: [AlertNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/alert_node.html)


### Derivative

Create a new node that computes the derivative of adjacent points. 


```javascript
node.derivative(field string)
```

Returns: [DerivativeNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/derivative_node.html)


### Eval

Create an eval node that will evaluate the given transformation function to each data point. 
A list of expressions may be provided and will be evaluated in the order they are given 
and results of previous expressions are made available to later expressions. 


```javascript
node.eval(expressions ...tick.Node)
```

Returns: [EvalNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/eval_node.html)


### From

Creates a new stream node that can be further 
filtered using the Database, RetentionPolicy, Measurement and Where properties. 
From can be called multiple times to create multiple 
independent forks of the data stream. 

Example: 


```javascript
    // Select the 'cpu' measurement from just the database 'mydb'
    // and retention policy 'myrp'.
    var cpu = stream.from()
                       .database('mydb')
                       .retentionPolicy('myrp')
                       .measurement('cpu')
    // Select the 'load' measurement from any database and retention policy.
    var load = stream.from()
                        .measurement('load')
    // Join cpu and load streams and do further processing.
    cpu.join(load)
            .as('cpu', 'load')
        ...
```



```javascript
node.from()
```

Returns: [StreamNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/stream_node.html)


### GroupBy

Group the data by a set of tags. 

Can pass literal * to group by all dimensions. 
Example: 


```javascript
    .groupBy(*)
```



```javascript
node.groupBy(tag ...interface{})
```

Returns: [GroupByNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/group_by_node.html)


### HttpOut

Create an http output node that caches the most recent data it has received. 
The cached data is available at the given endpoint. 
The endpoint is the relative path from the API endpoint of the running task. 
For example if the task endpoint is at &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;&#34; and endpoint is 
&#34;top10&#34;, then the data can be requested from &#34;/api/v1/task/&lt;task_name&gt;/top10&#34;. 


```javascript
node.httpOut(endpoint string)
```

Returns: [HTTPOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/http_out_node.html)


### InfluxDBOut

Create an influxdb output node that will store the incoming data into InfluxDB. 


```javascript
node.influxDBOut()
```

Returns: [InfluxDBOutNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/influx_d_b_out_node.html)


### Join

Join this node with other nodes. The data is joined on timestamp. 


```javascript
node.join(others ...Node)
```

Returns: [JoinNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/join_node.html)


### MapReduce

Perform a map-reduce operation on the data. 
The built-in functions under `influxql` provide the 
selection,aggregation, and transformation functions 
from the InfluxQL language. 

MapReduce may be applied to either a batch or a stream edge. 
In the case of a batch each batch is passed to the mapper idependently. 
In the case of a stream all incoming data points that have 
the exact same time are combined into a batch and sent to the mapper. 


```javascript
node.mapReduce(mr MapReduceInfo)
```

Returns: [ReduceNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/reduce_node.html)


### Sample

Create a new node that samples the incoming points or batches. 

One point will be emitted every count or duration specified. 


```javascript
node.sample(rate interface{})
```

Returns: [SampleNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/sample_node.html)


### Union

Perform the union of this node and all other given nodes. 


```javascript
node.union(node ...Node)
```

Returns: [UnionNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/union_node.html)


### Window

Create a new node that windows the stream by time. 

NOTE: Window can only be applied to stream edges. 


```javascript
node.window()
```

Returns: [WindowNode](/docs/kapacitor/v0.1/tick/window_node.html)

